---
---

# Authentication and authorization

UiTiD uses the open standard oAuth authentication.

There are two ways for an UiTiD Service Consumer to access the API:

1. UserAccessToken: a UserAccessTokenService provides the consumer access rights to the UiTiD API on behalf of the user.

2. Consumer Access: via a Consumer Request, the Service Consumer can perform certain actions that are typically not linked to 1 user, such as a search.

Depending on the type of request, a UserAccessToken must be used. This is always stated in the documentation.

For almost all programming languages [several libraries](http://oauth.net/code) are avaliable

For authentication via php with Cultuurnet services can you can also view [this example]({% link content/authentication-authorisation/latest/authentication-via-consumerrequest.md %})

## Glossary

* (Service) Consumer: A website or application that uses OAuth to speak on behalf of the User Service Provider.

* Access Token: A value used by the consumer to access Protected Resources on behalf of the user.

* Callback URL: URL of the location where the user must be end up once the authentication is completed correctly.

* Consumer access: access to the API at the level of the service consumer. This allows the service consumer to apply certain actions on the API.

* Consumer Key: A value used by the service consumer to identify the Oauth service provider (in this case UiTiD).

* Consumer secret: A secret value used by the service consumer that confirms the ownership of the consumer key to the service provider.

* Nonce: A Cryptographic Nonce is a unique value (random string) for each request, linked to the timestamp. This value helps prevent replay attacks, a common method of authentication protection.

* OAuth Verifier: A value that the Consumer needs to exchange the Request Token for an Access Token with the Service Provider.

* Request Token: A value that the Consumer uses to acquire authentication from a user. Upon successful authorization, this will be redeemed for an access token.

* Provider: A web application that provides access to OAuth.

* Signature Method: There are several methods of generating Signatures. OAuth does not set up a method, but can choose from three: HMAC-SHA1, RSA-SHA1, and PLAINTEXT, Service Providers can optionally add their own methods.

* Signature: All Token Requests and communications must be signed by the Protected Resources with a signature that is generated by combining the key or token with the corresponding secret. This process ensures unauthorized parties can not use the exchanged keys and tokens.

* Tokens / Secrets: The use of tokens and secrets is to to ensure the safe exchange of user data without a transport-layer security protocol. By using tokens and secrets that are sufficiently long and random in combination with a limited period of validity, a service provider can be sure that eavesdroppers / brute force attacks do not have a chance.

* Token Secret: A secret value that the Consumer uses to confirm ownership of a particular token with the service provider.

* User: An individual who has an account with the service provider (in this case a UiTiD account).
